FORTRAN77 Source Codes
======================

------------------------------------------------------------------------

1.  [anyplt](anyplt/anyplt.html), a library which was intended as a simple interface to a variety of graphics packages.
2.  [args](args/args.html), a program which reports the command line arguments of a FORTRAN77 program;
3.  [asa005](asa005/asa005.html), a library which evaluates the lower tail of the noncentral Student's T distribution, by BE Cooper. this is Applied Statistics Algorithm 5;
4.  [asa006](asa006/asa006.html), a library which computes the Cholesky factor of a positive definite symmetric matrix, by Michael Healy; this is Applied Statistics Algorithm 6;
5.  [asa007](asa007/asa007.html), a library which computes the inverse of a positive definite symmetric matrix, by Michael Healy; this is Applied Statistics Algorithm 7.
6.  [asa032](asa032/asa032.html), a library which evaluates the incomplete Gamma function, by G Bhattacharjee. this is Applied Statistics Algorithm 32;
7.  [asa047](asa047/asa047.html), a library which minimizes a scalar function of several variables using the Nelder-Mead algorithm, by R ONeill. this is Applied Statistics Algorithm 47;
8.  [asa058](asa058/asa058.html), a library which carries out clustering of data, by David Sparks. this is Applied Statistics Algorithm 58;
9.  [asa063](asa063/asa063.html), a library which evaluates the incomplete Beta function, by KL Majumder and G Bhattacharjee. this is Applied Statistics Algorithm 63;
10. [asa066](asa066/asa066.html), a library which computes the cumulative density function (CDF) of the standard normal distribution, by David Hill. this is Applied Statistics Algorithm 66;
11. [asa076](asa076/asa076.html), a library which evaluates Owen's T function, by Young and Minder. this is Applied Statistics Algorithm 76;
12. [asa091](asa091/asa091.html), a library which computes the percentage points of the Chi-square distribution, by Best and Roberts. this is Applied Statistics Algorithm 91;
13. [asa103](asa103/asa103.html), a library which evaluates the digamma or psi function, by Jose Bernardo. this is Applied Statistics Algorithm 103;
14. [asa109](asa109/asa109.html), a library which inverts the incomplete Beta function, by Cran, Martin and Thomas. this is Applied Statistics Algorithm 109;
15. [asa111](asa111/asa111.html), a library which evaluates the percentage points of the normal distribution, by Beasley and Springer. this is Applied Statistics Algorithm 111;
16. [asa113](asa113/asa113.html), a library which clusters data using a transfer and swap algorithm, by Banfield and Bassill; this is Applied Statistics Algorithm 113;
17. [asa121](asa121/asa121.html), a library which evaluates the trigamma function, by BE Schneider. this is Applied Statistics Algorithm 121;
18. [asa136](asa136/asa136.html), a library which implements a clustering algorithm, by Hartigan and Wong. this is Applied Statistics Algorithm 136;
19. [asa144](asa144/asa144.html), a library which randomly generates tables with given row and column sums, by James Boyett. this is Applied Statistics Algorithm 144;
20. [asa147](asa147/asa147.html), a library which evaluates the incomplete Gamma function, by Chi Leung Lau. this is Applied Statistics Algorithm 147;
21. [asa152](asa152/asa152.html), a library which evaluates the probability density function (PDF) and cumulative density function (CDF) associated with the hypergeometric distribution, by Richard Lund; this is Applied Statistics Algorithm 152;
22. [asa159](asa159/asa159.html), a library which generates a table with given row and column sums, by Michael Patefield; this is Applied Statistics Algorithm 159;
23. [asa172](asa172/asa172.html), a library which generates all multidimensional indices in a given range, simulating the behavior of an arbitrary number of nested loops, by OFlaherty and MacKenzie. this is Applied Statistics Algorithm 172;
24. [asa183](asa183/asa183.html), a library which implements a pseudorandom number generator, by Wichman and Hill. This is Applied Statistics Algorithm 183;
25. [asa189](asa189/asa189.html), a library which estimates the parameters of a beta binomial distribution based on a sample of values generated by the distribution, by D Smith; this is Applied Statistics Algorithm 189;
26. [asa205](asa205/asa205.html), a library which generates tables with given row and column sums; this is Applied Statistics Algorithm 205;
27. [asa226](asa226/asa226.html), a library which evaluates the noncentral incomplete Beta function, by Russell Lenth. this is Applied Statistics Algorithm 226;
28. [asa239](asa239/asa239.html), a library which evaluates the incomplete Gamma function, by Shea. this is Applied Statistics Algorithm 239;
29. [asa241](asa241/asa241.html), a library which computes the inverse of the normal cumulative density function (CDF), by Michael Wichura; this is Applied Statistics Algorithm 241;
30. [asa243](asa243/asa243.html), a library which evaluates the lower tail of the noncentral Student's T distribution, by Russell Lenth; this is Applied Statistics Algorithm 243;
31. [asa245](asa245/asa245.html), a library which evaluates the logarithm of the Gamma function, by Allan Mcleod; this is Applied Statistics Algorithm 245;
32. [asa266](asa266/asa266.html), a library which evaluates various properties of the Dirichlet probability density function (PDF); this is Applied Statistics Algorithm 266;
33. [asa299](asa299/asa299.html), a library which computes the lattice points (integer coordinates) in an M-dimensional simplex, by Chasalow and Brand; this is Applied Statistics Algorithm 299;
34. [asa310](asa310/asa310.html), a library which evaluates the noncentral incomplete Beta function, by Chattamvelli and Shanmugam; this is Applied Statistics Algorithm 310;
35. [ball\_grid](ball_grid/ball_grid.html), a library which computes grid points inside a 3D ball.
36. [ball\_volume\_monte\_carlo](ball_volume_monte_carlo/ball_volume_monte_carlo.html), a program which applies a Monte Carlo procedure to estimate the volume of the M-dimensional unit ball;
37. [band\_qr](band_qr/band_qr.html), a library which computes the QR factorization of a banded matrix, and can solve related linear systems, by Alfredo Remon, Enrique Quintana-Orti, Gregorio Quintana-Orti.
38. [barycentric\_interp\_1d](barycentric_interp_1d/barycentric_interp_1d.html), a library which defines and evaluates the barycentric Lagrange polynomial p(x) which interpolates a set of data, so that p(x(i)) = y(i). The barycentric approach means that very high degree polynomials can safely be used.
39. [bernstein](bernstein/bernstein.html), a library which evaluates the Bernstein polynomials;
40. [beta\_nc](beta_nc/beta_nc.html), a library which evaluates the cumulative density function (CDF) of the noncentral Beta distribution;
41. [betis](betis/betis.html), a program which applies the boundary element method to solve Laplace's equation in a 2D region, by Federico Paris and Jose Canas.
42. [bins](bins/bins.html), a library which orders, sorts and searches data using bins;
43. [bisection\_integer](bisection_integer/bisection_integer.html), a library which seeks an integer solution to the equation F(X)=0, using bisection within a user-supplied change of sign interval \[A,B\].
44. [black\_scholes](black_scholes/black_scholes.html), a library which implements some simple approaches to the Black-Scholes option valuation theory, by Desmond Higham.
45. [blas](blas/blas.html), a library which contains the Basic Linear Algebra Subprograms (BLAS) for level 1, 2 and 3, for single and double precision, and for real and complex arithmetic.
46. [blas1](blas1/blas1.html), a library which contains the Basic Linear Algebra Subprograms (BLAS) for level 1 (vector-vector operations), for single and double precision, and for real and complex arithmetic.
47. [blas1\_c](blas1_c/blas1_c.html), a library which constitutes the Level 1 Basic Linear Algebra Subprograms (BLAS), vector/vector, using single precision complex arithmetic;
48. [blas1\_d](blas1_d/blas1_d.html), a library which constitutes the Level 1 Basic Linear Algebra Subprograms (BLAS), vector/vector, using double precision real arithmetic;
49. [blas1\_s](blas1_s/blas1_s.html), a library which constitutes the Level 1 Basic Linear Algebra Subprograms (BLAS), vector/vector, using single precision real arithmetic;
50. [blas1\_z](blas1_z/blas1_z.html), a library which constitutes the Level 1 Basic Linear Algebra Subprograms (BLAS), vector/vector, using double precision complex arithmetic;
51. [blas2](blas2/blas2.html), a library which constitutes the Level 2 Basic Linear Algebra Subprograms (BLAS), matrix/vector;
52. [blas3](blas3/blas3.html), a library which constitutes the Level 3 Basic Linear Algebra Subprograms (BLAS), matrix/matrix;
53. [box\_behnken](box_behnken/box_behnken.html), a library which computes a Box-Behnken design, that is, a set of arguments to sample the behavior of a function of multiple parameters;
54. [brent](brent/brent.html), a library which contains routines for finding zeroes or minima of a scalar function of a scalar variable, without the use of derivative information, by Richard Brent.
55. [brownian\_motion\_simulation](brownian_motion_simulation/brownian_motion_simulation.html), a library which simulates Brownian motion in an M-dimensional region.
56. [bt\_serial](bt_serial/bt_serial.html), a program which is a serial version of the NAS Parallel Benchmark Block Tridiagonal (BT), a block tridiagonal solver for a 3D PDE.
57. [burgers\_solution](burgers_solution/burgers_solution.html), a library which evaluates an exact solution of the time-dependent 1D viscous Burgers equation.
58. [c4lib](c4lib/c4lib.html), a library which implements certain elementary functions for single precision complex variables;
59. [c8lib](c8lib/c8lib.html), a library which implements certain elementary functions for double precision complex variables;
60. [cell](cell/cell.html), a library which defines a cell array, a generalization of an array which can compactly store and retrieve vector or matrix data of varying size, such as the rows of a triangular matrix.
61. [cg\_plus](cg_plus/cg_plus.html), a library which implements the conjugate gradient method for the minimization of a scalar functional;
62. [cg\_serial](cg_serial/cg_serial.html), a program which is a serial version of the NAS Parallel Benchmark Conjugate Gradient (CG).
63. [channel](channel/channel.html), a program which uses a finite element model of time independent viscous incompressible flow in a 2D channel;
64. [chebyshev](chebyshev/chebyshev.html), a library which computes the Chebyshev interpolant/approximant to a given function over an interval.
65. [chebyshev\_interp\_1d](chebyshev_interp_1d/chebyshev_interp_1d.html), a library which determines the combination of Chebyshev polynomials which interpolates a set of data, so that p(x(i)) = y(i).
66. [chrpak](chrpak/chrpak.html), a library which can be used to analyze and manipulate character strings;
67. [circle\_arc\_grid](circle_arc_grid/circle_arc_grid.html), a program which computes grid points along a circular arc.
68. [circle\_grid](circle_grid/circle_grid.html), a library which computes grid points inside a circle.
69. [clean77](clean77/clean77.html), a program which can reformat a FORTRAN77 file, using some standard indenting and numbering conventions.
70. [clebsch\_gordan](clebsch_gordan/clebsch_gordan.html), a library which evaluates Clebsch-Gordan coefficients involved in angular momentum coupling in quantum mechanics;
71. [clenshaw\_curtis\_rule](clenshaw_curtis_rule/clenshaw_curtis_rule.html), a program which implements a Clenshaw Curtis quadrature rule;
72. [cnf\_io](cnf_io/cnf_io.html), a library which reads or writes Conjunctive Normal Form (CNF) data files, used to store boolean formulas.
73. [colored\_noise](colored_noise/colored_noise.html), a library which generates samples of noise obeying a 1/f^alpha power law.
74. [combo](combo/combo.html), a library which includes routines for ranking, unranking, enumerating and randomly selecting balanced sequences, cycles, graphs, Gray codes, subsets, partitions, permutations, restricted growth functions, Pruefer codes and trees.
75. [combination\_lock](combination_lock/combination_lock.html), a program which simulates the process of determining the secret combination of a lock.
76. [communicator\_mpi](communicator_mpi/communicator_mpi.html), a program which creates new communicators involving a subset of initial set of MPI processes in the default communicator MPI\_COMM\_WORLD.
77. [compass\_search](compass_search/compass_search.html), a library which seeks the minimizer of a scalar function of several variables using compass search, a direct search algorithm that does not use derivatives.
78. [complex\_numbers](complex_numbers/complex_numbers.html), a program which demonstrates some simple features involved in the use of complex numbers in FORTRAN77 programming.
79. [condition](condition/condition.html), a library which implements methods of computing or estimating the condition number of a matrix.
80. [cordic](cordic/cordic.html), a library which computes a few special functions using the CORDIC algorithm.
81. [correlation](correlation/correlation.html), a library which contains examples of statistical correlation functions.
82. [cwg\_ode](cwg_ode/cwg_ode.html), a library which contains three solvers for ordinary differential equations (ODEs) by William Gear.
83. [cycle\_brent](cycle_brent/cycle_brent.html), a library which carries out an iterated function evaluation, and seeks to determine the nearest element of a cycle, and the cycle's length, using Brent's method.
84. [cycle\_floyd](cycle_floyd/cycle_floyd.html), a library which carries out an iterated function evaluation, and seeks to determine the nearest element of a cycle, and the cycle's length, using Floyd's method.
85. [cyclic\_reduction](cyclic_reduction/cyclic_reduction.html), a library which solves a tridiagonal linear system using cyclic reduction;
86. [dbem](dbem/dbem.html), a program which uses the Direct Boundary Element Method (DBEM) to analyze a problem in 2D elastic stress, by Prasanta Banerjee, Roy Butterfield.
87. [diaphony](diaphony/diaphony.html), a program which reads a file of N points in M dimensions and computes its diaphony, a measure of point dispersion.
88. [dijkstra](dijkstra/dijkstra.html), a program which runs a simple example of Dijkstra's minimum distance algorithm for graphs.
89. [dijkstra\_openmp](dijkstra_openmp/dijkstra_openmp.html), a program which uses OpenMP to parallelize a simple example of Dijkstra's minimum distance algorithm for graphs.
90. [dislin](dislin/dislin.html), programs which illustrate the use of a scientific plotting package;
91. [divdif](divdif/divdif.html), a library which uses divided differences to compute the polynomial interpolant to a given set of data.
92. [doomsday](doomsday/doomsday.html), a library which is given the year, month and day of a date, and uses John Conway's doomsday algorithm to determine the corresponding day of the week.
93. [dqed](dqed/dqed.html), a library which solves bounded and constrained least squares problems and systems of nonlinear equations, by Richard Hanson and Fred Krogh.
94. [driv](driv/driv.html), a library which solves real or complex systems of ordinary differential equations, by David Kahaner, C D Sutherland;
95. [duel\_simulation](duel_simulation/duel_simulation.html), a program which simulates N repetitions of a duel between two players, each of whom has a known firing accuracy.
96. [eispack](eispack/eispack.html), a library which carries out eigenvalue computations; it includes a function to compute the singular value decomposition (SVD) of a rectangular matrix. superseded by LAPACK;
97. [ellipse\_grid](ellipse_grid/ellipse_grid.html), a library which computes grid points inside an ellipse.
98. [ellipsoid\_grid](ellipsoid_grid/ellipsoid_grid.html), a library which computes grid points inside a 3D ellipsoid.
99. [ep\_serial](ep_serial/ep_serial.html), a program which is a serial version of the NAS embarassingly parallel (EP) benchmark program.
100. [expokit](expokit/expokit.html), a library which solves various forms of the matrix exponential problem, by Roger Sidje.
101. [f77](f77/f77.html), programs which illustrate features of FORTRAN77;
102. [f77\_calls\_c](f77_calls_c/f77_calls_c.html), programs which illustrate how a FORTRAN77 program can call a C function.
103. [f77\_calls\_c++](f77_calls_c++/f77_calls_c++.html), programs which illustrate how a FORTRAN77 program can call a C++ function.
104. [f77\_class](f77_class/f77_class.html), programs which were used to illustrate a programming class.
105. [f77\_intrinsics](f77_intrinsics/f77_intrinsics.html), programs which illustrate the use of some of the intrinsic functions included with the FORTRAN77 standard language;
106. [fair\_dice\_simulation](fair_dice_simulation/fair_dice_simulation.html), a program which simulates N tosses of 2 dice, making a histogram of the results.
107. [fd\_predator\_prey](fd_predator_prey/fd_predator_prey.html), a program which solves a pair of predator prey ordinary differential equations (ODE's) using a finite difference approximation.
108. [fd1d\_burgers\_lax](fd1d_burgers_lax/fd1d_burgers_lax.html), a program which applies the finite difference method and the Lax Wendroff method to solve the non-viscous time-dependent Burgers equation in one spatial dimension.
109. [fd1d\_burgers\_leap](fd1d_burgers_leap/fd1d_burgers_leap.html), a program which applies the finite difference method and the leapfrog approach to solve the non-viscous time-dependent Burgers equation in one spatial dimension.
110. [fd1d\_bvp](fd1d_bvp/fd1d_bvp.html), a program which applies the finite difference method to a two point boundary value problem in one spatial dimension.
111. [fd1d\_heat\_explicit](fd1d_heat_explicit/fd1d_heat_explicit.html), a library which implements a finite difference solution, explicit in time, of the time dependent 1D heat equation;
112. [fd1d\_heat\_implicit](fd1d_heat_implicit/fd1d_heat_implicit.html), a program which implements a finite difference solution, implicit in time, of the time dependent 1D heat equation;
113. [fd1d\_heat\_steady](fd1d_heat_steady/fd1d_heat_steady.html), a program which implements a finite difference solution for the steady (time independent) 1D heat equation;
114. [fd1d\_predator\_prey](fd1d_predator_prey/fd1d_predator_prey.html), a program which implements a finite difference algorithm for a 1D predator-prey system;
115. [fd1d\_wave](fd1d_wave/fd1d_wave.html), a program which applies the finite difference method to solve the time-dependent wave equation utt = c \* uxx in one spatial dimension.
116. [fem1d](fem1d/fem1d.html), a program which applies the finite element method, with piecewise linear basis functions, to a linear two point boundary value problem in 1D;
117. [fem1d\_adaptive](fem1d_adaptive/fem1d_adaptive.html), a program which uses an adaptive mesh when applying the finite element method, with piecewise linear basis functions, to a linear two point boundary value problem in 1D;
118. [fem1d\_bvp\_linear](fem1d_bvp_linear/fem1d_bvp_linear.html), a program which applies the finite element method, with piecewise linear elements, to a two point boundary value problem in one spatial dimension, and compares the computed and exact solutions with the L2 and seminorm errors.
119. [fem1d\_heat\_steady](fem1d_heat_steady/fem1d_heat_steady.html), a program which implements the finite element method for the steady (time independent) 1D heat equation;
120. [fem1d\_nonlinear](fem1d_nonlinear/fem1d_nonlinear.html), a program which applies the finite element method, with piecewise linear basis functions, to a nonlinear two point boundary value problem in 1D;
121. [fem1d\_pmethod](fem1d_pmethod/fem1d_pmethod.html), a program which applies the p-method version of the finite element method to a linear two point boundary value problem in 1D;
122. [fem1d\_project](fem1d_project/fem1d_project.html), a program which projects data into a finite element space, including the least squares approximation of data, or the projection of a finite element solution from one mesh to another.
123. [fem1d\_sample](fem1d_sample/fem1d_sample.html), a program which samples a scalar or vector finite element function of one variable, defined by a set of files in FEM format, returning interpolated values at the sample points.
124. [fem2d\_pack](fem2d_pack/fem2d_pack.html), a library which implements simple 2D finite element calculations;
125. [fem2d\_poisson\_rectangle](fem2d_poisson_rectangle/fem2d_poisson_rectangle.html), a program which solves the 2D Poisson equation on a rectangle, using the finite element method, and piecewise quadratic triangular elements.
126. [fem2d\_poisson\_rectangle\_linear](fem2d_poisson_rectangle_linear/fem2d_poisson_rectangle_linear.html), a program which solves the 2D Poisson equation on a rectangle, using the finite element method, and piecewise linear triangular elements.
127. [fem2d\_sample](fem2d_sample/fem2d_sample.html), a program which samples a finite element function, defined by FEM files, (three text files describing the nodes, triangles, and coefficients); at arbitrary points.
128. [feynman\_kac\_1d](feynman_kac_1d/feynman_kac_1d.html), a program which demonstrates the use of the Feynman-Kac algorithm to solve Poisson's equation in a 1D interval by averaging stochastic paths to the boundary.
129. [feynman\_kac\_2d](feynman_kac_2d/feynman_kac_2d.html), a program which demonstrates the use of the Feynman-Kac algorithm to solve Poisson's equation in a 2D ellipse by averaging stochastic paths to the boundary.
130. [feynman\_kac\_3d](feynman_kac_3d/feynman_kac_3d.html), a program which demonstrates the use of the Feynman-Kac algorithm to solve Poisson's equation in a 3D ellipsoid by averaging stochastic paths to the boundary.
131. [fft\_openmp](fft_openmp/fft_openmp.html), a program which demonstrates the computation of a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) in parallel, using OpenMP.
132. [fft\_serial](fft_serial/fft_serial.html), a program which computes a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT), and is intended as a starting point for implementing an OpenMP parallel version.
133. [fftpack5](fftpack5/fftpack5.html), a library which contains version 5 of the Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) package by Paul Swarztrauber and Dick Valent;
134. [fftpack5.1](fftpack5.1/fftpack5.1.html), a library which contains version 5.1 of the Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) package by Paul Swarztrauber and Dick Valent;
135. [fftw3](fftw3/fftw3.html), programs which illustrate the use of the Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) package, by Matteo Frigo and Steven Johnson.
136. [file\_name\_sequence](file_name_sequence/file_name_sequence.html), a program which demonstrates ways to generate a sequence of filenames, which can be useful when generating a sequence of still snapshots to be animated later.
137. [files\_multiple](files_multiple/files_multiple.html), a program which demonstrates how a program can open multiple output files at one time, and write data to any one specific file it chooses.
138. [filum](filum/filum.html), a library which performs various operations on files;
139. [fishpack](fishpack/fishpack.html), a library which solves the Poisson, Laplace, or Helmholtz equation in 2D or 3D on a variety of geometries, by Paul Swarztrauber and Roland Sweet.
140. [floyd](floyd/floyd.html), a library which implements Floyd's algorithm for finding the shortest distance between pairs of nodes on a directed graph.
141. [fn](fn/fn.html), a library which evaluates elementary and special functions, by Wayne Fullerton.
142. [g77\_intrinsics](g77_intrinsics/g77_intrinsics.html), programs which illustrate the use of some of the "extra" intrinsic functions included with the Gnu G77 compiler for FORTRAN77;
143. [geometry](geometry/geometry.html), a library which carries out a number of 2D/3D geometric calculations;
144. [geompack](geompack/geompack.html), a library which determines the Delaunay triangulation of 2D data, by Barry Joe.
145. [gfortran](gfortran/gfortran.html), programs which investigate the use of the Gnu gfortran compiler for FORTRAN77.
146. [gfortran\_intrinsics](gfortran_intrinsics/gfortran_intrinsics.html), a program which illustrates the use of some of the intrinsic functions included by the Gnu gfortran compiler, above and beyond those specified in the FORTRAN77 language standards.
147. [gfortran\_quadmath](gfortran_quadmath/gfortran_quadmath.html), a program which illustrates the use of quadruple precision real arithmetic, as provided on some systems by the Gnu gfortran compiler for FORTRAN77.
148. [gm\_rule](gm_rule/gm_rule.html), a library which defines Grundmann-Moeller quadrature rules for an M-dimensional simplex.
149. [gnufor](gnufor/gnufor.html), a library which provides an interface between a FORTRAN77 program and the gnuplot graphics library.
150. [gprof](gprof/gprof.html), programs which illustrate the use of the GPROF program performance monitor;
151. [graphics\_examples](graphics_examples/graphics_examples.html), programs which illustrate how various kinds of data can be displayed and analyzed graphically.
152. [haar](haar/haar.html), a library which computes the Haar transform of data.
153. [hb\_to\_st](hb_to_st/hb_to_st.html), a program which reads a sparse matrix file in Harwell Boeing (HB) format and writes an equivalent file Sparse Triplet (ST) format.
154. [hcell](hcell/hcell.html), a program which solves the time-dependent 2D incompressible Navier Stokes equations in an H-shaped region.
155. [hcell\_steady](hcell_steady/hcell_steady.html), a program which solves the time-independent or "steady" 2D incompressible Navier Stokes equations in an H-shaped region, by Hyung-Chun Lee.
156. [heat\_mpi](heat_mpi/heat_mpi.html), a program which solves the 1D time dependent heat equation using MPI for parallel programming.
157. [heated\_plate](heated_plate/heated_plate.html), a program which solves the steady state heat equation in a 2D rectangular region, and is intended as a starting point for implementing an OpenMP parallel version.
158. [heated\_plate\_openmp](heated_plate_openmp/heated_plate_openmp.html), a program which solves the steady (time independent) heat equation in a 2D rectangular region, using OpenMP to run in parallel.
159. [hello](hello/hello.html), a program which prints out "Hello, world!".
160. [hello\_mpi](hello_mpi/hello_mpi.html), a program which prints out "Hello, world!" using MPI for parallel programming.
161. [hello\_openmp](hello_openmp/hello_openmp.html), a program which prints out "Hello, world!" within the OpenMP parallel programming environment.
162. [hermite](hermite/hermite.html), a library which computes the Hermite interpolant, a polynomial that matches function values and derivatives.
163. [hermite\_cubic](hermite_cubic/hermite_cubic.html), a library which can compute the value, derivatives or integral of a Hermite cubic polynomial, or manipulate an interpolating function made up of piecewise Hermite cubic polynomials.
164. [i4lib](i4lib/i4lib.html), a library which contains many utility routines, using single precision integer (I4) arithmetic.
165. [i8lib](i8lib/i8lib.html), a library which contains many utility routines, using double precision integer (I8) arithmetic.
166. [ice\_io](ice_io/ice_io.html), a library which reads or writes ICE grid files stored in netcdf format.
167. [ice\_to\_mesh](ice_to_mesh/ice_to_mesh.html), a program which reads a netcdf file containing an ICE dataset and rewrites the information as a MESH file.
168. [image\_components](image_components/image_components.html), a library which seeks the connected nonzero or nonblack components of an image or integer array.
169. [image\_denoise](image_denoise/image_denoise.html), a library which applies simple filtering operations to a noisy image.
170. [image\_edge](image_edge/image_edge.html), a library which demonstrates a simple procedure for edge detection in images.
171. [index](index/index.html), a library which converts a multidimensional vector index to a one-dimensional vector index; it can handle zero and one based indexing schemes, as well as column major and row major conventions.
172. [inout](inout/inout.html), a program which solves the time-dependent 2D incompressible Navier Stokes equations in a rectangular region with inflow and outflow, by Hyung-Chun Lee.
173. [ising\_2d\_simulation](ising_2d_simulation/ising_2d_simulation.html), a program which simulates the evolution of a 2D array of positive and negative charges, each of which is likely to flip to be in agreement with neighbors.
174. [kmedian](kmedian/kmedian.html), a program which solves the K-Median problem, by G Cornuejols, M L Fisher, G L Nemhauser.
175. [knapsack](knapsack/knapsack.html), a library which solves a variety of knapsack problems, by Silvano Martelo and Paolo Toth.
176. [kronrod](kronrod/kronrod.html), a library which can compute a Gauss and Gauss-Kronrod pair of quadrature rules of arbitrary order, by Robert Piessens, Maria Branders.
177. [lagrange\_approx\_1d](lagrange_approx_1d/lagrange_approx_1d.html), a library which defines and evaluates the Lagrange polynomial p(x) of degree m which approximates a set of nd data points (x(i),y(i)).
178. [lagrange\_interp\_1d](lagrange_interp_1d/lagrange_interp_1d.html), a library which defines and evaluates the Lagrange polynomial p(x) which interpolates a set of data depending on a 1D argument, so that p(x(i)) = y(i).
179. [lagrange\_interp\_2d](lagrange_interp_2d/lagrange_interp_2d.html), a library which defines and evaluates the Lagrange polynomial p(x,y) which interpolates a set of data depending on a 2D argument that was evaluated on a product grid, so that p(x(i),y(j)) = z(i,j).
180. [lagrange\_interp\_nd](lagrange_interp_nd/lagrange_interp_nd.html), a library which defines and evaluates the Lagrange polynomial p(x) which interpolates a set of data depending on a multidimensional argument that was evaluated on a product grid, so that p(x(i)) = z(i).
181. [lamp](lamp/lamp.html), a library which solves linear assignment and matching problems, by Rainer Burkard, Ulrich Derigs.
182. [lapack\_examples](lapack_examples/lapack_examples.html), a program which demonstrates the use of the lapack linear algebra library.
183. [lapack\_examples\_osx](lapack_examples_osx/lapack_examples_osx.html), a program which demonstrates the use of the precompiled lapack linear algebra library available on Macintosh OSX systems, using the "-framework veclib" compiler option.
184. [latin\_cover](latin_cover/latin_cover.html), a library which produces N Latin squares which cover an NxN square, or NxN Latin cubes which cover an NxNxN cube.
185. [latinize](latinize/latinize.html), a library which adjusts N points in M dimensions to form a Latin Hypercube;
186. [lawson](lawson/lawson.html), a library which contains routines for solving least squares problems and singular value decompositions (SVDs), by Lawson and Hanson.
187. [legendre\_rule\_fast](legendre_rule_fast/legendre_rule_fast.html), a program which uses a fast (order N) algorithm to compute a Gauss-Legendre quadrature rule of given order.
188. [linpack](linpack/linpack.html), a library which solves linear systems for a variety of matrix storage schemes, real or complex arithmetic, and single or double precision. The original version of this library is by Jack Dongarra, Jim Bunch, Cleve Moler, Pete Stewart.
189. [linpack\_bench](linpack_bench/linpack_bench.html), a program which carries out the linpack benchmark;
190. [linpack\_c](linpack_c/linpack_c.html), a library which solves linear systems using single precision complex arithmetic; The original version of this library is by Jack Dongarra, Jim Bunch, Cleve Moler, Pete Stewart.
191. [linpack\_d](linpack_d/linpack_d.html), a library which solves linear systems using double precision real arithmetic; The original version of this library is by Jack Dongarra, Jim Bunch, Cleve Moler, Pete Stewart.
192. [linpack\_s](linpack_s/linpack_s.html), a library which solves linear systems using single precision real arithmetic; The original version of this library is by Jack Dongarra, Jim Bunch, Cleve Moler, Pete Stewart.
193. [linpack\_z](linpack_z/linpack_z.html), a library which solves linear systems using double precision complex arithmetic; The original version of this library is by Jack Dongarra, Jim Bunch, Cleve Moler, Pete Stewart.
194. [linplus](linplus/linplus.html), a library which factors/solves/multiplies matrices in a variety of storage formats;
195. [llsq](llsq/llsq.html), a library which solves the simple linear least squares problem of finding the formula of a straight line y=a\*x+b which minimizes the root-mean-square error to a set of N data points.
196. [machar](machar/machar.html), a library which dynamically computes the values of various machine characteristic constants by William Cody;
197. [machine](machine/machine.html), a library which returns tabulated values of machine constants;
198. [makefiles](makefiles/makefiles.html), programs which illustrate the use of makefiles for maintaining a software project;
199. [mandelbrot](mandelbrot/mandelbrot.html), a program which generates an ASCII Portable Pixel Map (PPM) image of the Mandelbrot set;
200. [mandelbrot\_openmp](mandelbrot_openmp/mandelbrot_openmp.html), a program which generates an ASCII Portable Pixel Map (PPM) image of the Mandelbrot fractal set, using OpenMP for parallel execution;
201. [matman](matman/matman.html), a program which manipulates matrices;
202. [matmul](matmul/matmul.html), a program which carries out a matrix multiplication benchmark;
203. [matrix\_exponential](matrix_exponential/matrix_exponential.html), a library which demonstrates some simple approaches to the problem of computing the exponential of a matrix.
204. [md](md/md.html), a program which carries out a molecular dynamics simulation, and is intended as a starting point for implementing an OpenMP parallel version.
205. [md\_openmp](md_openmp/md_openmp.html), a program which carries out a molecular dynamics simulation in parallel using OpenMP.
206. [mdbnch](mdbnch/mdbnch.html), a program which is a molecular dynamics benchmark;
207. [mesh\_bandwidth](mesh_bandwidth/mesh_bandwidth.html), a program which returns the geometric bandwidth associated with a mesh of elements of any order and in a space of M dimensions.
208. [mesh\_io](mesh_io/mesh_io.html), a library which can read or write MESH files, which can be used to define the geometry of a finite element mesh in 2D or 3D, using triangles, quadrilaterals, tetrahedrons or hexahedrons.
209. [mesh\_to\_ice](mesh_to_ice/mesh_to_ice.html), a program which reads the ICE dataset information from a MESH file and rewrites it to a netcdf file.
210. [mg\_serial](mg_serial/mg_serial.html), a program which a serial version of the NAS Parallel Benchmark MG (MultiGrid).
211. [mgmres](mgmres/mgmres.html), a library which applies the restarted GMRES algorithm to a sparse linear system, by Lili Ju;
212. [mgs](mgs/mgs.html), a library which is an example of legacy code, which the student is encouraged to study, understand, and document. This example is due to Diane O'Leary.
213. [minpack](minpack/minpack.html), a library which solves linear and nonlinear least squares problems.
214. [mixed](mixed/mixed.html), programs which illustrate the use of mixed language programming in which the main program is written in FORTRAN77;
215. [mpi](mpi/mpi.html), programs which illustrate the use of the MPI library for the parallel execution of programs;
216. [mpi\_stubs](mpi_stubs/mpi_stubs.html), a library which may be used if a parallel program is to be compiled, loaded and run in a serial machine.
217. [multigrid\_poisson\_1d](multigrid_poisson_1d/multigrid_poisson_1d.html), a library which applies the multigrid method to a discretized version of the 1D Poisson equation.
218. [multitask\_mpi](multitask_mpi/multitask_mpi.html), a program which demonstrates how to multitask, that is, to execute several unrelated and distinct tasks simultaneously, using MPI for parallel execution.
219. [multitask\_openmp](multitask_openmp/multitask_openmp.html), a program which demonstrates how to multitask, that is, to execute several unrelated and distinct tasks simultaneously, using OpenMP for parallel execution.
220. [mxm](mxm/mxm.html), a program which sets up a matrix multiplication problem A=B\*C of arbitrary size, and compares the time required for IJK, IKJ, JIK, JKI, KIJ and KJI orderings of the loops.
221. [mxm\_openmp](mxm_openmp/mxm_openmp.html), a program which computes a dense matrix product C=A\*B, using OpenMP for parallel execution.
222. [mxm\_serial](mxm_serial/mxm_serial.html), a program which sets up a matrix multiplication problem A=B\*C, intended as a starting point for implementing a parallel version.
223. [mxv](mxv/mxv.html), a program which compares the performance of (do i, do j) loops and (do j, do i) loops for computing the product of an MxN matrix A and an N vector X.
224. [mxv\_openmp](mxv_openmp/mxv_openmp.html), a program which measures the performance of the matrix multiplication problem y=A\*x, with and without parallelization by OpenMP.
225. [napack](napack/napack.html), a library which includes many routines for applied numerical linear algebra, by William Hager.
226. [nas](nas/nas.html), a program which runs the NASA kernel benchmark.
227. [nearest\_interp\_1d](nearest_interp_1d/nearest_interp_1d.html), a library which interpolates a set of data using a piecewise constant interpolant defined by the nearest neighbor criterion.
228. [netcdf](netcdf/netcdf.html), a directory of example programs which read and write netcdf files.
229. [netode](netode/netode.html), a program which models the time-dependent behavior of a two-phase fluid in an abstract network of nodes and links.
230. [nintlib](nintlib/nintlib.html), a library which applies approximate integration (quadrature) in M dimensions;
231. [nl2sol](nl2sol/nl2sol.html), a library which implements an adaptive nonlinear least squares algorithm, by John Dennis, David Gay, Roy Welsch.
232. [nms](nms/nms.html), a library which accompanies the text "Numerical Methods and Software";
233. [normal](normal/normal.html), a library which generates normally distributed pseudorandom numbers.
234. [ode](ode/ode.html), a library which solves a system of ordinary differential equations (ODE's), by Shampine and Gordon;
235. [odepack](odepack/odepack.html), a library which contains nine ODE solvers, including LSODE, LSODES, LSODA, LSODAR, LSODPK, LSODKR, LSODI, LSOIBT, and LSODIS, by Alan Hindmarsh.
236. [openmp](openmp/openmp.html), programs which illustrate the use of the use of the OpenMP interface for parallel processing on shared memory systems;
237. [openmp\_stubs](openmp_stubs/openmp_stubs.html), a library which is a dummy implementation of the OpenMP routines, and can be used to compile, load, and run a program using OpenMP on a system which does not have OpenMP installed.
238. [optimize](optimize/optimize.html), a program which looks at the use of automatic optimization by the compiler to make the executable code run faster.
239. [owens](owens/owens.html), a library which evaluates Owen's T function;
240. [paranoia](paranoia/paranoia.html), a program which checks the accuracy of floating point arithmetic on a given computer.
241. [partition\_problem](partition_problem/partition_problem.html), a library which seeks solutions of the partition problem, splitting a set of integers into two subsets with equal sum.
242. [pbma\_io](pbma_io/pbma_io.html), a library which reads or writes ASCII Portable Bit Map (PBM) 2D bit map graphics files;
243. [pce\_burgers](pce_burgers/pce_burgers.html), a program which defines and solves a version of the time-dependent viscous Burgers equation, with uncertain viscosity, using a polynomial chaos expansion in terms of Hermite polynomials, by Gianluca Iaccarino.
244. [pce\_ode\_hermite](pce_ode_hermite/pce_ode_hermite.html), a program which sets up a simple scalar ordinary differential equation (ODE) for exponential decay with an uncertain decay rate, using a polynomial chaos expansion in terms of Hermite polynomials.
245. [pgma\_io](pgma_io/pgma_io.html), a library which reads or writes ASCII Portable Gray Map (PGM) 2D grayscale graphics files;
246. [piecewise\_linear\_product\_integral](piecewise_linear_product_integral/piecewise_linear_product_integral.html), a library which calculates the exact value of the integral of the product of two piecewise linear functions f(x) and g(x).
247. [pink\_noise](pink_noise/pink_noise.html), a library which computes a pink noise signal obeying a 1/f power law.
248. [pitcon66](pitcon66/pitcon66.html), a library which seeks to produce a sequence of points that satisfy a set of nonlinear equations with one degree of freedom; this is version 6.6 of ACM TOMS algorithm 596.
249. [pltmg](pltmg/pltmg.html), a library which carries out Piecewise Linear Multigrid finite element calculations, by Randy Bank;
250. [point\_merge](point_merge/point_merge.html), a library which considers N points in M dimensional space, and counts or indexes the unique or tolerably unique items.
251. [poisson\_openmp](poisson_openmp/poisson_openmp.html), a program which computes an approximate solution to the Poisson equation in a rectangle, using the Jacobi iteration to solve the linear system, and OpenMP to carry out the Jacobi iteration in parallel.
252. [poisson\_serial](poisson_serial/poisson_serial.html), a program which computes an approximate solution to the Poisson equation in a rectangle, and is intended as the starting point for the creation of a parallel version.
253. [poisson\_simulation](poisson_simulation/poisson_simulation.html), a library which simulates a Poisson process in which events randomly occur with an average waiting time of Lambda.
254. [polpak](polpak/polpak.html), a library which evaluates a variety of mathematical functions, including Chebyshev, Gegenbauer, Hermite, Jacobi, Laguerre, Legendre polynomials, and the Collatz sequence.
255. [polygon\_moments](polygon_moments/polygon_moments.html), a library which computes arbitrary moments of a polygon.
256. [power\_method](power_method/power_method.html), a library which carries out the power method for finding a dominant eigenvalue and its eigenvector.
257. [ppma\_io](ppma_io/ppma_io.html), a library which reads or writes ASCII Portable Pixel Map (PPM) 2D color graphics files;
258. [pppack](pppack/pppack.html), a library which computes piecewise polynomial interpolants and approximants, in particular, cubic splines, by Carl DeBoor.
259. [praxis](praxis/praxis.html), a library which minimizes a scalar function of several variables, without requiring derivative information, by Richard Brent.
260. [prime\_mpi](prime_mpi/prime_mpi.html), a program which counts the number of primes between 1 and N, using MPI for parallel execution.
261. [prime\_openmp](prime_openmp/prime_openmp.html), a program which counts the number of primes between 1 and N, using OpenMP for parallel execution.
262. [prime\_serial](prime_serial/prime_serial.html), a program which counts the number of primes between 1 and N, and is intended as a starting point for a parallel version.
263. [pwl\_approx\_1d](pwl_approx_1d/pwl_approx_1d.html), a library which approximates a set of data using a piecewise linear function.
264. [pwl\_interp\_1d](pwl_interp_1d/pwl_interp_1d.html), a library which interpolates a set of data using a piecewise linear function.
265. [pwl\_interp\_2d](pwl_interp_2d/pwl_interp_2d.html), a library which evaluates a piecewise linear interpolant to data defined on a regular 2D grid.
266. [pwl\_interp\_2d\_scattered](pwl_interp_2d_scattered/pwl_interp_2d_scattered.html), a library which evaluates a piecewise linear interpolant to data which is available at an irregularly arranged set of points.
267. [qr\_solve](qr_solve/qr_solve.html), a library which computes the least squares solution of a linear system A\*x=b.
268. [quad\_mpi](quad_mpi/quad_mpi.html), a program which applies a quadrature rule to estimate an integral, using MPI;
269. [quad\_openmp](quad_openmp/quad_openmp.html), a program which applies a quadrature rule to estimate an integral over a 1D interval, using OpenMP for parallel execution;
270. [quad\_serial](quad_serial/quad_serial.html), a program which applies a quadrature rule to estimate an integral, intended as a starting point for parallelization exercises.
271. [quad2d\_openmp](quad2d_openmp/quad2d_openmp.html), a program which applies a product quadrature rule to estimate an integral over a 2D rectangle, using OpenMP for parallel execution;
272. [quad2d\_serial](quad2d_serial/quad2d_serial.html), a program which applies a product quadrature rule to estimate an integral over a 2D rectangle, intended as a starting point for parallelization exercises.
273. [quadpack](quadpack/quadpack.html), a library which approximates integrals of various types over finite, semi-infinite and infinite one dimensional intervals;
274. [quadrule](quadrule/quadrule.html), a library which implements rules for approximate integration (quadrature) in one dimension;
275. [r4lib](r4lib/r4lib.html), a library which contains many utility routines, using single precision real (R4) arithmetic.
276. [r8lib](r8lib/r8lib.html), a library which contains many utility routines, using double precision real (R8) arithmetic.
277. [randlc](randlc/randlc.html), a library which generates a sequence of pseudorandom numbers, used by the NAS Benchmark programs.
278. [random\_mpi](random_mpi/random_mpi.html), a program which demonstrates one way to generate the same sequence of random numbers for both sequential execution and parallel execution under MPI.
279. [random\_openmp](random_openmp/random_openmp.html), a program which illustrates how a parallel program using OpenMP can generate multiple distinct streams of random numbers.
280. [ranlib](ranlib/ranlib.html), a library which produces random samples from a variety of probabilistic distributions, by Brown and Lovato.
281. [rbf\_interp\_1d](rbf_interp_1d/rbf_interp_1d.html), a library which defines and evaluates radial basis function (RBF) interpolants to 1D data.
282. [rbf\_interp\_2d](rbf_interp_2d/rbf_interp_2d.html), a library which defines and evaluates radial basis function (RBF) interpolants to 2D data.
283. [rbf\_interp\_nd](rbf_interp_nd/rbf_interp_nd.html), a library which defines and evaluates radial basis function (RBF) interpolants to multidimensional data.
284. [reactor simulation](reactor_simulation/reactor_simulation.html), a program which is a simple Monte Carlo simulation of the shielding effect of a slab of a certain thickness in front of a neutron source. This program was provided as an example with the book "Numerical Methods and Software."
285. [read\_align](read_align/read_align.html), a program which extracts data from a multiple alignment file for sequences and writes the data to a file suitable for input to the distances program.
286. [revnew](revnew/revnew.html), a program which demonstrates the use of Newton's method to solve a system of nonlinear equations, using reverse communication.
287. [ring\_mpi](ring_mpi/ring_mpi.html), a program which uses the MPI parallel programming environment, and measures the time necessary to copy a set of data around a ring of processes.
288. [rk4](rk4/rk4.html), a library which applies the fourth order Runge-Kutta (RK) algorithm to estimate the solution of an ordinary differential equation (ODE) at the next time step.
289. [rkf45](rkf45/rkf45.html), a library which solves a system of ordinary differential equations (ODEs) by the Runge-Kutta-Fehlberg (RKF) method.
290. [sandia\_cvt](sandia_cvt/sandia_cvt.html), a program which positions a given number of points in an arbitrary region, using probabilistic Centroidal Voronoi Tessellation (CVT) techniques to achieve good coverage and separation; developed for Sandia National Laboratories;
291. [satisfy](satisfy/satisfy.html), a program which demonstrates, for a particular circuit, an exhaustive search for solutions of the circuit satisfiability problem.
292. [satisfy\_mpi](satisfy_mpi/satisfy_mpi.html), a program which demonstrates, for a particular circuit, an exhaustive search for solutions of the circuit satisfiability problem, using MPI to perform the calculation in parallel.
293. [satisfy\_openmp](satisfy_openmp/satisfy_openmp.html), a program which demonstrates, for a particular circuit, an exhaustive search for solutions of the circuit satisfiability problem, using OpenMP for parallel execution.
294. [schedule\_openmp](schedule_openmp/schedule_openmp.html), a program which demonstrates the default, static, and dynamic methods of scheduling loop iterations in OpenMP to avoid work imbalance.
295. [scpack](scpack/scpack.html), a library which performs the numerical computation of Schwarz-Christoffel conformal mappings, by Nick Trefethen.
296. [sde](sde/sde.html), a library which illustrates the properties of stochastic differential equations (SDE's), and common algorithms for their analysis, by Desmond Higham;
297. [search\_mpi](search_mpi/search_mpi.html), a program which searches integers between A and B for a solution J such that F(J)=C, carried out in parallel using MPI.
298. [search\_serial](search_serial/search_serial.html), a program which searches the integers from A to B for a value J such that F(J) = C. this version of the program is intended as a starting point for a parallel approach.
299. [select](select/select.html), a library which carries out Nijenhuis and Wilf's generalized combinatorial selection algorithm;
300. [serba](serba/serba.html), a program which applies the boundary element method to solve the elasticity equation in a 2D region, by Federico Paris and Jose Canas.
301. [sftpack](sftpack/sftpack.html), a library which implements the slow Fourier transform (SFT), intended as a teaching tool and comparison with the Fast Fourier Transform (FFT).
302. [sgefa\_openmp](sgefa_openmp/sgefa_openmp.html), a program which compares a standard linear algebra solver against a revised version which can be run in parallel with OpenMP.
303. [shepard\_interp\_1d](shepard_interp_1d/shepard_interp_1d.html), a library which defines and evaluates Shepard interpolants to 1D data, based on inverse distance weighting.
304. [shepard\_interp\_2d](shepard_interp_2d/shepard_interp_2d.html), a library which defines and evaluates Shepard interpolants to 2D data, based on inverse distance weighting.
305. [shepard\_interp\_nd](shepard_interp_nd/shepard_interp_nd.html), a library which defines and evaluates Shepard interpolants to multidimensional data, based on inverse distance weighting.
306. [simpack](simpack/simpack.html), a library which estimates an integral over a region that is the union of multidimensional simplexes, by Alan Genz.
307. [simplex\_coordinates](simplex_coordinates/simplex_coordinates.html), a library which computes the Cartesian coordinates of the vertices of a regular simplex in M dimensions.
308. [sine\_transform](sine_transform/sine_transform.html), a library which demonstrates some simple properties of the discrete sine transform.
309. [sparse\_interp\_nd](sparse_interp_nd/sparse_interp_nd.html), a library which can be used to define a sparse interpolant to a function f(x) of a multidimensional argument.
310. [sparsekit](sparsekit/sparsekit.html), a library which performs sparse matrix operations, by Yousef Saad;
311. [sparsepak](sparsepak/sparsepak.html), a library which forms an obsolete version of the Waterloo Sparse Matrix Package;
312. [specfun](specfun/specfun.html), a library which computes special functions, including Bessel I, J, K and Y functions, and the Dawson, E1, EI, Erf, Gamma, Psi/Digamma functions, by William Cody and Laura Stoltz;
313. [special\_functions](special_functions/special_functions.html), a library which computes special functions, including the Beta, Error, Gamma, Psi functions, the Airy functions, Bessel I, J, K and Y functions, the Hankel functions, the Hermite, Laguerre and Legendre polynomials, the cosine, elliptic, exponential and sine integrals, and the Mathieu function, by Shanjie Zhang, Jianming Jin;
314. [sphere\_grid](sphere_grid/sphere_grid.html), a library which provides a number of ways of generating grids of points, or of points and lines, or of points and lines and faces, over the unit sphere.
315. [sphere\_lebedev\_rule](sphere_lebedev_rule/sphere_lebedev_rule.html), a library which computes Lebedev quadrature rules for the unit sphere;
316. [sphere\_quad](sphere_quad/sphere_quad.html), a library which approximates an integral over the surface of the unit sphere by applying a triangulation to the surface;
317. [spline](spline/spline.html), a library which interpolates and approximates via splines;
318. [spread](spread/spread.html), a program which reads a SWISS-PROT file and identifies the tyrosine residues.
319. [spring\_ode](spring_ode/spring_ode.html), a program which shows how line printer graphics can be used to make a crude illustration of a solution of the ordinary differential equation (ODE) that describes the motion of a weight attached to a spring.
320. [spring\_ode2](spring_ode2/spring_ode2.html), a program which shows how gnuplot graphics can be used to illustrate a solution of the ordinary differential equation (ODE) that describes the motion of a weight attached to a spring.
321. [starpac](starpac/starpac.html), a library which carries out statistical data analysis.
322. [steam\_nbs](steam_nbs/steam_nbs.html), a library which is based on the NBS steam table package;
323. [steam\_nbs\_interact](steam_nbs_interact/steam_nbs_interact.html), a program which queries the NBS steam table package;
324. [stochastic\_rk](stochastic_rk/stochastic_rk.html), a library which applies a Runge-Kutta scheme to a stochastic differential equation (SDE).
325. [stroud](stroud/stroud.html), a library which defines rules for numerical integration (quadrature) over M-dimensional regions, including spheres, toruses and other shapes;
326. [subpak](subpak/subpak.html), a library which implements a wide variety of operations on real and integer vectors and matrices;
327. [subset](subset/subset.html), a library which ranks, unranks, and generates random subsets, combinations, permutations, and so on;
328. [subset\_sum](subset_sum/subset_sum.html), a program which seeks solutions of the subset sum problem.
329. [sum\_million](sum_million/sum_million.html), a program which sums the integers from 1 to 1,000,000, as a demonstration of how to rate a computer's speed;
330. [svd\_demo](svd_demo/svd_demo.html), a program which demonstrates the calculation of the singular value decomposition (SVD) and some of its properties;
331. [table\_io](table_io/table_io.html), a library which reads and writes a set of data as a table file.
332. [task\_division](task_division/task_division.html), a library which implements a simple procedure for smoothly dividing T tasks among P processors; such a method can be useful in MPI and other parallel environments, particularly when T is not an exact multiple of P, and when the processors can be indexed starting from 0 or from 1.
333. [tcell](tcell/tcell.html), a program which solves the time-dependent 2D incompressible Navier Stokes equations in a T-shaped region, by Hyung-Chun Lee.
334. [tcell\_mass](tcell_mass/tcell_mass.html), a program which creates and saves the mass matrix associated with a finite element solution of the time dependent 2D incompressible Navier Stokes equations in the t-cell region, by Hyung-Chun Lee.
335. [templated](templated/templated.html), a library which forms basic implementations of iterative methods for solving large sparse linear systems; this is the double precision version.
336. [templates](templates/templates.html), a library which forms basic implementations of iterative methods for solving large sparse linear systems; this is the single precision version.
337. [test\_approx](test_approx/test_approx.html), a library which implements test problems for approximation, provided as a set of (x,y) data.
338. [test\_con](test_con/test_con.html), a library which implements test problems for numerical continuation.
339. [test\_eigen](test_eigen/test_eigen.html), a library which implements test matrices for eigenvalue analysis.
340. [test\_int](test_int/test_int.html), a library which implements test problems for approximate integration (quadrature) in one dimension.
341. [test\_int\_2d](test_int_2d/test_int_2d.html), a library which implements test problems for approximate integration (quadrature) in two dimensions.
342. [test\_int\_hermite](test_int_hermite/test_int_hermite.html), a library which defines test integrands for Hermite integrals with interval (-oo,+oo) and weight exp(-x^2).
343. [test\_int\_laguerre](test_int_laguerre/test_int_laguerre.html), a library which implements test problems for approximate integration over a semi-infinite interval.
344. [test\_interp](test_interp/test_interp.html), a library which defines test problems for interpolation, provided as a set of (x,y(x)) data.
345. [test\_interp\_1d](test_interp_1d/test_interp_1d.html), a library which defines test problems for interpolation of data y(x), which depends on a 1D argument.
346. [test\_interp\_2d](test_interp_2d/test_interp_2d.html), a library which defines test problems for interpolation of data z(x,y)), depending on a 2D argument.
347. [test\_interp\_nd](test_interp_nd/test_interp_nd.html), a library which defines test problems for interpolation of data z(x), depending on an M-dimensional argument.
348. [test\_ls](test_ls/test_ls.html), a library which implements linear least squares test problems of the form A\*x=b.
349. [test\_mat](test_mat/test_mat.html), a library which implements test matrices.
350. [test\_matrix\_exponential](test_matrix_exponential/test_matrix_exponential.html), a library which defines a set of test cases for computing the matrix exponential.
351. [test\_min](test_min/test_min.html), a library which implements test problems for minimization of a scalar function of a scalar variable.
352. [test\_nonlin](test_nonlin/test_nonlin.html), a library which implements test problems for the solution of systems of nonlinear equations.
353. [test\_opt\_con](test_opt_con/test_opt_con.html), a library which defines test problems for the minimization of a scalar function of several variables, with the search constrained to lie within a specified hyper-rectangle.
354. [test\_optimization](test_optimization/test_optimization.html), a library which implements test problems for optimization of a scalar function of several variables, as described by Molga and Smutnicki.
355. [test\_values](test_values/test_values.html), a library which stores a small set of values for a variety of mathematical functions.
356. [test\_zero](test_zero/test_zero.html), a library which implements test problems for the solution of a single nonlinear equation in one variable.
357. [testpack](testpack/testpack.html), a library which contains a set of test integrand functions, by Alan Genz.
358. [tetrahedron\_grid](tetrahedron_grid/tetrahedron_grid.html), a library which computes a grid of points inside a 3D tetrahedron.
359. [three\_body\_simulation](three_body_simulation/three_body_simulation.html), a program which simulates the behavior of three planets, constrained to lie in a plane, and moving under the influence of gravity, by Walter Gander and Jiri Hrebicek.
360. [timer](timer/timer.html), programs which illustrate how executing code may be timed.
361. [timestamp](timestamp/timestamp.html), a library which prints out the YMDHMS date as a timestamp.
362. [toeplitz\_cholesky](toeplitz_cholesky/toeplitz_cholesky.html), a library which computes the Cholesky factorization of a nonnegative definite symmetric Toeplitz matrix.
363. [toms178](toms178/toms178.html), a library which seeks the minimizer of a scalar function of several variables using the Hooke-Jeeves method, by Arthur Kaupe. this is a FORTRAN77 version of ACM TOMS algorithm 178.
364. [toms179](toms179/toms179.html), a library which calculates the incomplete Beta ratio, by Oliver Ludwig; this is a FORTRAN77 version of ACM TOMS algorithm 179.
365. [toms291](toms291/toms291.html), a library which approximates the logarithm of the Gamma function; this is a FORTRAN77 version of ACM TOMS algorithm 291.
366. [toms322](toms322/toms322.html), a library which evaluates the cumulative density function (CDF) for the normal, Student's T, F and chi-square probability distributions; this is a FORTRAN77 version of ACM TOMS algorithm 322.
367. [toms332](toms332/toms332.html), a library which evaluates Jacobi polynomials; this is a FORTRAN77 version of ACM TOMS algorithm 332.
368. [toms343](toms343/toms343.html), a library which computes the eigenvalues and eigenvectors of a general real matrix; this is a FORTRAN77 version of ACM TOMS algorithm 343.
369. [toms344](toms344/toms344.html), a library which calculates the Student T distribution; this is a FORTRAN77 version of ACM TOMS algorithm 344.
370. [toms347](toms347/toms347.html), a library which sorts an integer vector; this is a FORTRAN77 version of ACM TOMS algorithm 347.
371. [toms351](toms351/toms351.html), a library which estimates an integral using Romberg integration; this is a FORTRAN77 version of ACM TOMS algorithm 351.
372. [toms352](toms352/toms352.html), a library which computes the characteristic values and associated solutions of Mattieu's differential equation; this is a FORTRAN77 version of ACM TOMS algorithm 352.
373. [toms353](toms353/toms353.html), a library which estimates an integral involving a cosine or sine factor using Filon quadrature; this is a FORTRAN77 version of ACM TOMS algorithm 353.
374. [toms358](toms358/toms358.html), a library which computes the singular value decomposition (SVD) of a complex matrix; this is a FORTRAN77 version of ACM TOMS algorithm 358.
375. [toms359](toms359/toms359.html), a library which computes the factorial analysis of variance; this is a FORTRAN77 version of ACM TOMS algorithm 359.
376. [toms365](toms365/toms365.html), a library which finds a root of an analytic complex function by the downhill method; this is a FORTRAN77 version of ACM TOMS algorithm 365.
377. [toms370](toms370/toms370.html), a library which produces random numbers sampled from an arbitrary probability density function (PDF); this is a FORTRAN77 version of ACM TOMS algorithm 370.
378. [toms379](toms379/toms379.html), a library which approximates the integral of a function; this is a FORTRAN77 version of ACM TOMS algorithm 379.
379. [toms384](toms384/toms384.html), a library which computes the eigenvalues and eigenvectors of a symmetric matrix; this is a FORTRAN77 version of ACM TOMS algorithm 384.
380. [toms385](toms385/toms385.html), a library which evaluates the exponential integral function; this is a FORTRAN77 version of ACM TOMS algorithm 385.
381. [toms392](toms392/toms392.html), a library which approximates the time evolution of a hyperbolic partial differential equation (PDE); this is a FORTRAN77 version of ACM TOMS algorithm 392.
382. [toms418](toms418/toms418.html), a library which implements Filon quadrature of integrals involve a factor of cos(w\*x) or sin(w\*x); this is ACM TOMS algorithm 418.
383. [toms419](toms419/toms419.html), a library which seeks the zeroes of a polynomial with complex coefficients; this library is commonly called CPOLY; this is ACM TOMS algorithm 419.
384. [toms423](toms423/toms423.html), a library which implements Gaussian elimination, revised versions of DECOMP and SOLVE; this is ACM TOMS algorithm 423.
385. [toms424](toms424/toms424.html), a library which implements Clenshaw-Curtis integration; this is ACM TOMS algorithm 424.
386. [toms425](toms425/toms425.html), a library which generates a sequence of vectors from a multivariate normal distribution with given covariance; this is ACM TOMS algorithm 425.
387. [toms427](toms427/toms427.html), a library which estimates a Fourier cosine integral; this is ACM TOMS algorithm 427.
388. [toms429](toms429/toms429.html), a library which reports information about the estimated location of roots of a polynomial; this is ACM TOMS algorithm 429.
389. [toms431](toms431/toms431.html), a library which solves quadratic and linear programming problems this is ACM TOMS algorithm 431.
390. [toms434](toms434/toms434.html), a library which computes the probability of a given RxC contingency table; this is ACM TOMS algorithm 434.
391. [toms435](toms435/toms435.html), a library which computes the modified incomplete gamma function; this is ACM TOMS algorithm 435.
392. [toms436](toms436/toms436.html), a library which carries out product-type trapezoidal integration; this is ACM TOMS algorithm 436.
393. [toms437](toms437/toms437.html), a library which carries out product-type Simpson's integration; this is ACM TOMS algorithm 437.
394. [toms438](toms438/toms438.html), a library which carries out product-type two point Gauss-Legendre-Simpson integration; this is ACM TOMS algorithm 438.
395. [toms439](toms439/toms439.html), a library which carries out product-type three point Gauss-Legendre-Simpson integration; this is ACM TOMS algorithm 439.
396. [toms441](toms441/toms441.html), a library which samples the dipole distribution; this is ACM TOMS algorithm 441.
397. [toms443](toms443/toms443.html), a library which evaluates Lambert's W function; this is ACM TOMS algorithm 443.
398. [toms446](toms446/toms446.html), a library which manipulates Chebyshev series for interpolation and approximation; this is ACM TOMS algorithm 446, by Roger Broucke.
399. [toms448](toms448/toms448.html), a library which counts the number of partitions of an integer into a given set of integers; this is ACM TOMS algorithm 448.
400. [toms450](toms450/toms450.html), a library which minimizes a scalar function of N variables using the method of Rosenbrock; this is ACM TOMS algorithm 450.
401. [toms451](toms451/toms451.html), a library which determines quantiles of the Chi-Square distribution; this is ACM TOMS algorithm 451.
402. [toms452](toms452/toms452.html), a library which generates a sequence of combinations of M things out of N; this is ACM TOMS algorithm 452.
403. [toms453](toms453/toms453.html), a library which determines the abscissas and weights for a Gaussian quadrature formula for Bromwich's integral; this is ACM TOMS algorithm 453.
404. [toms454](toms454/toms454.html), a library which implements the complex method of constrained optimization; this is ACM TOMS algorithm 454.
405. [toms456](toms456/toms456.html), a library which implements the routing algorithm; this is ACM TOMS algorithm 456.
406. [toms460](toms460/toms460.html), a library which determines the optimal parameters for an alternating direction implicit (ADI) iteration; this is ACM TOMS algorithm 460.
407. [toms461](toms461/toms461.html), a library which applies cubic spline solutions to a class of functional differential equations; this is ACM TOMS algorithm 461.
408. [toms462](toms462/toms462.html), a library which evaluates the upper right tail of the bivariate normal distribution; that is, the probability that normal variables X and Y with correlation R will satisfy H &lt;= X and K &lt;= Y; this is ACM TOMS algorithm 462.
409. [toms463](toms463/toms463.html), a library which chooses nice ranges for a graph of computer-generated data; this is ACM TOMS algorithm 463.
410. [toms467](toms467/toms467.html), a library which transposes a matrix in place; this is ACM TOMS algorithm 467.
411. [toms468](toms468/toms468.html), a library which carries out automatic numerical integration; this is ACM TOMS algorithm 468.
412. [toms470](toms470/toms470.html), a library which solves an almost tridiagonal system of linear equations; this is ACM TOMS algorithm 470.
413. [toms493](toms493/toms493.html), a library which seeks the roots of a real polynomial; this library is commonly called RPOLY; this is ACM TOMS algorithm 493.
414. [toms494](toms494/toms494.html), a library which approximates a 1D PDE as a system of ordinary differential equations (ODEs); this library is commonly called PDEONE; this is ACM TOMS algorithm 494.
415. [toms502](toms502/toms502.html), a library which computes a sequence of solutions of a parameterized system of equations; this is ACM TOMS algorithm 526.
416. [toms515](toms515/toms515.html), a library which can select subsets of size K from a set of size N, ACM TOMS Algorithm 515;
417. [toms526](toms526/toms526.html), a library which interpolates scattered bivariate data, by Hiroshi Akima; this is ACM TOMS algorithm 526.
418. [toms550](toms550/toms550.html), a library which evaluates certain measures of a solid polyhedron, including surface area, centroid, volume, weight, moments and products of inertia; this is ACM TOMS algorithm 550.
419. [toms552](toms552/toms552.html), a library which solves an overdetermined constrained linear system; this is ACM TOMS algorithm 552.
420. [toms563](toms563/toms563.html), a library which solves a linearly constrained L1 minimization problem, by Richard Bartels, Andrew Conn. This is ACM TOMS algorithm 563.
421. [toms565](toms565/toms565.html), a library which approximates the solution of a system of time-dependent partial differential equations (PDEs) over a 2D domain; this library is commonly called PDETWO; this is ACM TOMS algorithm 565;
422. [toms571](toms571/toms571.html), a library which evaluates or inverts the von Mises and Fisher distributions of directions on a circle or sphere; this is ACM TOMS algorithm 571.
423. [toms581](toms581/toms581.html), a library which implements an improved algorithm for computing the singular value decomposition (SVD) of a rectangular matrix; this is ACM TOMS algorithm 571, by Tony Chan.
424. [toms596](toms596/toms596.html), a library which seeks to produce a sequence of points that satisfy a set of nonlinear equations with one degree of freedom; this library is commonly called PITCON; this is ACM TOMS algorithm 596.
425. [toms611](toms611/toms611.html), a library which performs unconstrained optimization of a scalar function; this library is commonly called UNCMIN; this is ACM TOMS algorithm 611, by David Gay.
426. [toms612](toms612/toms612.html), a library which approximates the integral of a function over a triangle; the primary routine is known as TRIEX; this is ACM TOMS algorithm 612.
427. [toms626](toms626/toms626.html), a library which creates a contour plot of data associated with a triangulated set of points; this is ACM TOMS algorithm 626.
428. [toms644](toms644/toms644.html), a library which evaluates the Bessel I, J, K, Y functions, the Airy functions Ai and Bi, and the Hankel function, for complex argument and real order.
429. [toms647](toms647/toms647.html), a library which evaluates the Faure, Halton, and Sobol quasirandom sequences, this is ACM TOMS algorithm 647;
430. [toms648\_nsd](toms648_nsd/toms648_nsd.html), a library which defines non-stiff test problems for ordinary differential equation (ODE) solvers, using double precision arithmetic; this is one part of ACM TOMS algorithm 648.
431. [toms655](toms655/toms655.html), a library which computes the weights for interpolatory quadrature rule; this library is commonly called IQPACK; this is ACM TOMS algorithm 655.
432. [toms659](toms659/toms659.html), a library which computes elements of the Sobol quasirandom sequence; this is ACM TOMS algorithm 659.
433. [toms660](toms660/toms660.html), a library which takes scattered data in 2D and creates an interpolating function F(X,Y), called qshep2d, this is ACM TOMS algorithm 660, by Robert Renka.
434. [toms661](toms661/toms661.html), a library which takes scattered data in 3D and creates an interpolating function F(X,Y,Z), called qshep3d, this is ACM TOMS algorithm 661, by Robert Renka.
435. [toms664](toms664/toms664.html), a library which uses Gauss elimination to solve linear systems involving large banded matrices. Disk storage is used when there is not enough memory for the working data; this library is commonly called GBSOL; this is ACM TOMS algorithm 664.
436. [toms672](toms672/toms672.html), a library which generates an interpolatory quadrature rule of highest possible order, given a set of preassigned abscissas; this library is commonly called EXTEND; this is ACM TOMS algorithm 672.
437. [toms699](toms699/toms699.html), a library which implements a new representation of Patterson's quadrature formula. this is ACM TOMS algorithm 699.
438. [toms706](toms706/toms706.html), a library which estimates the integral of a function over a triangulated region; this library is commonly called DCUTRI; this is ACM TOMS algorithm 706.
439. [toms708](toms708/toms708.html), a library which evaluates the incomplete beta function, by Armido Didonato, Alfred Morris, Jr; this is ACM TOMS algorithm 708.
440. [toms726](toms726/toms726.html), a library which computes recursion coefficients for orthogonal polynomials, and the abscissa and weights for related quadrature rules; this library is commonly called ORTHPOL; this is ACM TOMS algorithm 726.
441. [toms738](toms738/toms738.html), a library which evaluates Niederreiter's quasirandom sequence; this is ACM TOMS algorithm 738;
442. [toms757](toms757/toms757.html), a library which evaluates uncommon special functions, by Allan McLeod; this is ACM TOMS algorithm 757;
443. [toms772](toms772/toms772.html), a library which carries out computational geometry on the unit sphere, by Robert Renka. this library is commonly called stripack; this is ACM TOMS algorithm 772.
444. [toms790](toms790/toms790.html), a library which computes an interpolating function to a set of scattered data in the plane; this library is commonly called cshep2d; by Robert Renka; this is ACM TOMS algorithm 790.
445. [toms792](toms792/toms792.html), a library which tests functions that interpolate scattered data in the plane, by Robert Renka; this is ACM TOMS algorithm 792.
446. [toms793](toms793/toms793.html), a library which carries out Gauss quadrature for rational functions, by Walter Gautschi; this is ACM TOMS algorithm 793.
447. [triangle\_grid](triangle_grid/triangle_grid.html), a library which computes a triangular grid of points.
448. [triangulation](triangulation/triangulation.html), a library which computes, plots and manipulates the triangulation of a set of points in 2D;
449. [tripack](tripack/tripack.html), a library which computes constrained Delaunay triangulation in the plane, ACM TOMS algorithm 751, by Robert Renka.
450. [ttyplt](ttyplt/ttyplt.html), a library which uses typewrite graphics to display simple mathematical plots.
451. [uncmin](uncmin/uncmin.html), a library which seeks the unconstrained minimization of a scalar function of several variables.
452. [unicycle](unicycle/unicycle.html), a library which considers permutations containing a single cycle, sometimes called cyclic permutations.
453. [uniform](uniform/uniform.html), a library which generates uniform random numbers.
454. [valgrind](valgrind/valgrind.html), directory of programs which illustrate the use of the VALGRIND suite of programs which includes a memory leak detector.
455. [vandermonde\_approx\_1d](vandermonde_approx_1d/vandermonde_approx_1d.html), a library which finds a polynomial approximant to data y(x) of a 1D argument by setting up and solving an overdetermined linear system for the polynomial coefficients involving the Vandermonde matrix.
456. [vandermonde\_approx\_2d](vandermonde_approx_2d/vandermonde_approx_2d.html), a library which finds a polynomial approximant p(x,y) to data z(x,y) of a 2D argument by setting up and solving an overdetermined linear system for the polynomial coefficients involving the Vandermonde matrix.
457. [vandermonde\_interp\_1d](vandermonde_interp_1d/vandermonde_interp_1d.html), a library which finds a polynomial interpolant to data y(x) of a 1D argument by setting up and solving a linear system for the polynomial coefficients involving the Vandermonde matrix.
458. [vandermonde\_interp\_2d](vandermonde_interp_2d/vandermonde_interp_2d.html), a library which finds a polynomial interpolant to data z(x,y) of a 2D argument by setting up and solving a linear system for the polynomial coefficients involving the Vandermonde matrix.
459. [walsh](walsh/walsh.html), a library which implements versions of the Walsh and Haar transforms.
460. [weekday](weekday/weekday.html), a library which determines the day of the week corresponding to a given date, such as 14 October 1066, Julian calendar, ...which was a Saturday.
461. [wtime](wtime/wtime.html), a library which returns a reading of the wall clock time in seconds.
462. [xerror](xerror/xerror.html), a library which constitutes the SLATEC error message package.
463. [ziggurat](ziggurat/ziggurat.html), a library which samples the uniform, normal or exponential distributions, using the ziggurat method, by Marsaglia and Tsang.
464. [ziggurat\_openmp](ziggurat_openmp/ziggurat_openmp.html), a program which demonstrates how the ziggurat library can be used to generate random numbers in an OpenMP parallel program.

You can go up one level to [the main web page.](../index.html)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Last revised on 28 November 2012.*
